# ICABR Hands-on-Bioeconomy-Measurement-Workshop
Advancing and fostering the bioeconomy has become paramount to the attainment of many agricultural, environmental, and policy objectives set forth by governments around the world. However, measuring the bioeconomy is a challenge because it evolves and is driven by diverse policy strategies that depend on the country and region in which it develops. That is, there are different bioeconomies in the world. In view of the difficulty of measuring a bioeconomy, it is obvious that there is not a one-size-fits-all approach to do so. This hands-on workshop is intended to show academics, industry representatives, and policymakers methodologies with which to assess and measure the social, economic, and environmental components of a bioeconomy. Distinct metrics within a bioeconomy’s social, economic, and environmental dimensions that can be measured will be shown and discussed. In this workshop three metrics will be showcased. For the social dimension of a bioeconomy, participants will be shown how to setup a public acceptance (willingness to pay) assessment. For the economic dimension of the bioeconomy, participants will be shown how to use a system of national accounts to provide an overview of its contribution to the national economy (the example country is yet to be determined). For the environmental component of the bioeconomy, a land footprint analysis of a field crop with and without a biotech trait will be presented. Measuring the bioeconomy is not simply about assessing how big or small it may be, but also showing the sectors in which it is most developed and where opportunities for its further expansion may lie.
